# Testing

## Testing frameworks used

This project uses the following testing frameworks:
- JUnit 5: For unit testing Java classes.
- Spring Boot Test: For integration testing Spring Boot applications.
- SonarQube: For code quality and coverage analysis.

## Code coverage with JaCoCo

The project uses JaCoCo for measuring code coverage. JaCoCo is integrated into the Maven build process. To generate a code coverage report, run the following command:

```bash
mvn clean test jacoco:report
```

## Spring security test

The project uses Spring Security Test for testing security-related functionality in Spring applications. This allows you to test authentication and authorization scenarios in your tests.


## Running all tests

To run all tests in the project, use the following command:

```bash
mvn test
```

This command will execute all unit tests, integration tests, and any other tests configured in the project.

## Running specific tests

To run a specific test class, use the following command:

```bash
mvn -Dtest=ClassNameTest test
```

Replace `ClassNameTest` with the name of the test class you want to run.

To run multiple specific test classes, you can use a comma-separated list:

```bash
mvn -Dtest=ClassNameTest1,ClassNameTest2 test
```

## Test Reports

After running the tests, you can find the test reports in the `target/surefire-reports` directory. The reports are generated in both plain text and XML formats.

## Code Coverage

SonarQube is used for code quality and coverage analysis. To run the SonarQube analysis, use the following command:

```bash
mvn sonar:sonar
```

## Additional Notes

- You may need to set up a SonarQube server to view the coverage reports generated by the SonarQube analysis.

## Code Cuality Tools

- [Checkstyle](https://checkstyle.org/) - A development tool to help programmers write Java code that adheres to a coding standard.
- [Sonarqube](https://www.sonarqube.org/) - An open-source platform for continuous inspection of code quality to perform automatic reviews with static analysis of code to detect bugs, code smells, and security vulnerabilities.